![](/assets/images/Spirit_GE_30W.jpg "Spirit_GE_30W.jpg")

## Technical specifications

  - Cutting area 812 mm (31.968 inches) and 460 mm (18.110 inches).
    millimeters
  - Cutting power max. 30 Watt.
  - Maximum Power Consumption:

## Health & Safety

## CAM

  - **2D** Printer driver from most CAD or ilustration software
  - From PDF

## Tools

  - Tools here

## Materials and configurations

### Suppliers

[For a supplier list take a look at this table maintained by de Fab Lab
BARCELONA](http://fablabbcn.org/maquinas/provedores-materiales/)

### Acrylic / Metacrilato

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

`1.75mm   14.6  75% max     on      on`
`2mm      13    75% max on      on`
`2.75mm   11    75% max on      on`
`3mm      9 75% max on      on`
`3.5mm    8 75% max on      on`
`5mm      2.5   35%     on      on`
`10mm     0.6   35% max off     on`

### Neoprene / Neopreno

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

` 3mm   20  50% 400 off     on`
` 3mm   100 10% 400 off     on`

### Plywood / Contrachapado

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

` 1.20mm   12   60% 500 off     on`
` 2.5mm    12   100%    500 off     on`
` 3mm      8.6  100%    500 off     on`
` 4mm   7.6 100%    500 off     on`
`                               `

MDF Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

` 3mm   8   100%    600 off     on`
` 4mm   4   100%    600 off     on`
`                           `

### Masonite

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

` 3mm     3.8   100%    500 off     on`

### Felt / Fiestro

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

` 4mm   19  100%    200 off     on`
` 10mm  4   100%    200 off     on`

### Box Cardboard / Cartón

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

`   4mm    20   100 400 off     on`

### Paper / Papel

## Cut

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

`200gr  100 30  400 off  off    on`

## Engrave

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

`200gr    100   10  400 off  off    on`

### Skuba Fabric

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

` 1mm     25    35  100 off  off    on`

### Iron Adhesive Fabric

Thickness Speed Power PPI Enhanced Vector Air assist

`         40    25  400     off  off    on`

## Machine work flow

![](/assets/images/spirit_ge_screen_control.JPG
"spirit_ge_screen_control.JPG")

![](/assets/images/spirit_ge_elevation.JPG
"spirit_ge_elevation.JPG")

### The LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver

With the LaserPro Spirit GE print driver successfully installed, you
will need to adjust the printer and page size default settings before
you can begin editing and completing jobs. By doing so, you will be
setting the work area in your graphics software to match the LaserPro
Spirit GE’s worktable area.

NOTE Please make sure Spirit GE is set to the default printer before
proceeding to the page and layout setup. Ensure that the LaserPro Spirit
GE has been selected as the DEFAULT PRINTER. You can do so by going into
your Windows Control Panel : Printers and Faxes.

If LaserPro Spirit GE is not selected as DEFAULT PRINTER, you may set it
up through the graphics software as well. The following is taking Corel
Draw as example of how to set up LaserPro Spirit GE as the Printer. 1)
From the primary menu, click FILE : PRINT SETUP. 2) From the navigation
bar Name, click Spirit GE : OK

### Page Setup and Orientation

The first thing you must do before working with the LaserPro Spirit GE
Print Driver will be to make sure the page and layout settings are
properly configured within your graphics software. You will need to
access and edit the Page Setup or Layout page of your graphics software
to set your graphics software’s page layout to match the LaserPro Spirit
GE’s work table’s dimensions and orientation. From your graphic
software’s Page Setup page:

  -
    Set the page orientation in the graphics software to Landscape mode.
    Set page size horizontal length to 812 mm (31.968 inches) and
    vertical height to 460 mm (18.110

inches). Corel Draw Example (Page Setup and Orientation)

### Spirit GE User Manual

The following is an example of how to set the Page Setup and Orientation
in the graphics software. CorelDraw is the designated graphics software
used for this example. For other graphics software, you will need to
access the corresponding Page Setup page. 3) From the primary menu 4)
From the navigation bar on the left 5) Ensure that NORMAL PAPER and
LANDSCAPE are selected. 6) Ensure the Paper Width and Height dimensions
match the LaserPro Spirit GE’s work table dimensions of 812 mm (31.968
inches) and 460 mm (18.110 inches). 7) Click OK to complete the paper
size adjustment. TIP Instead of manually selecting the Landscape and
setting the Paper Width and Height, you can simply click the Set From
Printer function and CorelDraw will automatically set the proper
orientation and dimensions based on LaserPro Spirit GE’s work table.
(You MUST have the Spirit GE set as the default printer prior to doing
this.)

### Color Management

LaserPro driver uses pen color settings to control laser engraver
engraving and cutting parameters. In addition to having your Page Setup
and Orientation properly set in your graphics software, you will also
need to make sure Color Management is DISABLED prior to working with the
LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver. If you do not properly From your
graphic software’s Color Management page: . Disable Color Management or
set Color Management to Off. Corel Draw Example (Color Management) The
following is an example of how to properly disable Color Management in
the graphics software. CorelDraw is the designated graphics software
used for this example. For other graphics software, you will need to
access the corresponding Color Management page. 1) From the primary
menu, click TOOLS : COLOR MANAGEMENT and CorelDraw’s Color Management
will appear. 2) Under the Style pull down menu, select COLOR MANAGEMENT
OFF. 3) Click OK to complete the color management adjustments. 5.2.3
Using the LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver Now after you have properly
set the Page and Layout and Color Management of your graphics software,
you are ready to configure the details of your actual job through the
LaserPro Spirit GE Print

Driver. The LaserPro Spirit GE print driver allows you to adjust your
engraving / cutting options. After you have setup your image, design, or
text to be engraved in your software application, you can access the
LaserPro Spirit GE print driver by going to FILE : PRINT : PROPERTIES.
Note For this screenshot example, CorelDraw was used as the software
application. The LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver consists of seven
primary sections (pages) in which you will be able to choose various
engraving / cutting options and settings: . Option Page . Pen Page .
Advance Page . Paper Page . Language Page . Raster Page (appears only in
Black & White Mode) . Stamp Page (appears only in Stamp Mode)

TIP The following sections describe the specific functions for each of
the settings found in the LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver. If you are
new to laser engraving, it is recommended that you first familiar
yourself with the general principals of the laser process in Section 6,
especially the Vector Cutting and Raster Engraving concepts. This will
make it easier to understand the various descriptions and terminology
used in this section.

### LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver \>\> Option Page

Mode Setting (OPTION PAGE) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Black & White\] You can
select four primary mode settings, depending on your application or
results you would like to achieve. Black & White: Select this mode when
using clipart images or drawings with several colors, shades of gray, or
many outlines. This mode outputs in a method similar to that of a black
and white laser printer.

The entire selected image will be engraved using a single set of power &
speed settings (the black pen from the PEN menu. Please refer to the
next section of the manual for details regarding the PEN functions). The
LaserPro Spirit GE print driver will interpret colored and shaded areas
as different shades of gray by producing a halftone effect while
engraving. Instead of engraving only solid lines, gray/halftone areas
will be a collection of dots with varying density. The resolution and
depth of these halftone areas can be adjusted with the DPI setting found
on the Options page. Please note that selecting the Black & White mode
will add a new Raster page to the menu. The Black & White mode dithering
settings can be changed from the Raster page. (Please refer to the
Raster section below for details). Experiment with different dithering
settings to attain the desired results. TIP The Black & White mode
interprets the processed image by the varying colors and shades. For the
best results, we suggest you convert the image to a grayscale image with
your graphics software prior to engraving in the Black & White mode.

NOTE Selecting the Black & White mode will enable the Raster page on the
LaserPro Spirit GE Print Driver, allowing you to adjust advanced
stamp-related settings. Manual Color Fill: Select this mode when you
would like to designate specific power and speed settings and link them
to certain colors of your image. The LaserPro Spirit GE print driver
allows a maximum of 16 pen parameters to be set. 3D Mode: Select this
mode to attain a sculptured 3D effect on your engraving. By using images
that have a range of gray areas, the LaserPro Spirit GE print driver can
manipulate the image to give it added depth, by linking the laser power
(depth of engraving) to specific colors. The settings can be adjusted
through the DPI setting (Option page) and PPI, power and speed settings
(Pen page). Stamp Mode: Select this mode to when you would like to
engrave stamps. The stamp mode is one of the more dynamic functions of
the LaserPro Spirit GE. Due to the unique engraving nature when
engraving a stamp, the stamp production requires different operational
steps than most engraving or cutting operations. NOTE Selecting the
Stamp mode will enable the Stamp page on the Spirit GE Print Driver,
allowing you to adjust advanced stamp-related settings. DPI (Option
Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: 500\] DPI (dots-per-inch) represents the number
of times the laser will fire over a one-inch path. This setting
determines the image resolution and quality when performing raster
engraving functions. Higher DPI settings result in cleaner and deeper
engravings, but require a more time to complete. Lower DPI settings
result in coarser and shallower engravings, but require less time to
complete. The LaserPro Spirit GE offers 8 DPI options: 125, 250, 300,
380, 500, 600, 760, and 1000, experiment with different settings to get
your desired effect.

Below is a chart for your convenience detailing the Set DPI (your input
setting) vs. Actual DPI (your output results). Set DPI 125 250 300 \*
380 500 600 \* 760 1000 Actual DPI 127 254 381 381 508 762 762 1016
NOTE\* Outputting a full-table (34” x 18”) job using 300 or 600 DPI will
result in a truncation error; this is due to the large differences in
set DPI vs. actual DPI output for those two particular DPI settings.
Therefore, when processing a 34” x 18” job using 300 DPI, we recommend
you move to the next higher DPI setting of 380. Similarly, for a 34” x
18” job using 600 DPI, we recommend you use 760 DPI. Mirror (Option
Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] Checking this box will
automatically engrave your image with a mirrored effect. This setting
will flip the image along the Y-axis from left to right and vice-versa.
TIP When engraving a stamp, via the stamp mode, the stamp image needs to
be engraved in reverse (mirrored) for the final stamp to be correctly
laid out. Invert (Option Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] Checking
this box automatically inverts / reverses the color of your image (the
white areas become black and vice versa). The Invert option is not
available in disabled with Manual Color File mode selected. TIP Invert
mode is useful when creating a stamp in Stamp Mode, as inverting your
normal image will set the negative space to be engraved out, with the
remaining positive space (your stamp design) protruding out. Mirror
Effect Invert Effect

Print Immediately (Option Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] Checking
this will instruct the LaserPro Spirit GE to immediately begin the laser
engraving process, when you select Print from your graphic software
program. If Print Immediately is not checked, then selecting Print will
transfer the job file to the LaserPro Spirit GE system and will need to
be initialized from the LaserPro Spirit GE control panel. SmartACT
(Option Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] SmartACT is reduces the
amount of time it takes to process a job, by eliminating unnecessary
travel of the laser carriage at the expense of some quality. Usually the
quality loss is minimal, but will depend on the image or design you are
working with; please take some time to experiment with your particular
design to determine whether the tradeoff is acceptable. TIP There is a
greater performance gain when enabling SmartACT for designs that are
vertically longer than they are horizontally wide, as the SmartACT
optimization modifies the movement of the X-axis of the laser carriage.
File Function (Option Page): The file function section allows you to
manage various laser parameters. This section is useful when performing
repeat jobs on a variety of objects, allowing you to save your
frequently used laser parameters and load them in the future. 􀂃 History
File: This section contains a list of the recent files you have recently
created and worked with, please note that. 􀂃 SAVE: This function will
save the current print driver parameter settings to a file and location
on your computer of your selection. (Saved parameter setting files will
be tagged with the .H2O extension) 􀂃 LOAD: This function allows you load
a previously saved print driver parameters. 􀂃 ORIGINAL: This function
will load the print driver’s original factory parameter settings. 􀂃 SAVE
TO DEFAULT: This function allows you to save your current print driver
parameters as the default startup settings. 􀂃 DELETE: This function will
delete the file you select from the History File section. Please note
the delete function only removes the file from the history file section,
it does not remove the .H2O file from your hard drive, if you wish to
completely remove the file from your hard disk, and you will have to
manually delete the file from your operating system.) NOTE If you are
using Windows 2000 or XP as your operating system, then make sure you
log in with an administrator or administrator-rights account in order to
properly save laser parameter settings.

### Spirit GE Print Driver \>\> Pen Page

The LaserPro Spirit GE incorporates the use of 16 different colors to
represent 16 different laser power and speed settings when cutting and
engraving. These colors are referred to as “Pens”. Think of each pen as
a designated laser setting, rather than as a color. As an example, a
black and white image will use only one power and speed laser setting
(Black). An image that is made up of black, red and blue colors will be
processed using the laser settings designated for each particular color.
In order to utilize up to 16 different pens (laser parameter settings),
make sure your graphics software can recognize and utilizes the 16 pen
colors designated by the Spirit GE print driver. If you would like to
specify your own colors to designate to a particular laser setting, then
all you have to do is to double-click on that particular pen color from
the pen menu and a color manager window will open where you can select
“define custom colors” to define your own color (shown in the picture
below). This is useful when your image is composed of colors that are
not part of the pen menu’s default color selection, and instead of
modifying your image, you simply would like to assign the laser settings
based on the existing colors based on your current image.

NOTE The Spirit GE print driver cannot store more than 16 pen colors or
different laser parameter settings per file. Speed (Pen Page) \[DEFAULT
SETTING: 50\] The speed slider controls the laser’s speed during
operation (engraving speed) with a range setting from 0.1 – 100%. The
Spirit GE’s maximum laser processing speed is 60 inches per second,
therefore a setting of 100% speed is equivalent to 60 inches per second
and a 10% speed setting would be equivalent to 6 inches per second. Keep
in mind, this is the speed the laser moves at when cutting or engraving
straight lines. The machine will automatically slow down when processing
curves. TIP Cutting / engraving depth and quality are determined by a
combination of power and speed. Slower speeds at higher power will
produce deeper cuts and engravings, whereas higher speeds at lower power
will produce more shallow cuts and engravings.

Power (Pen Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: 50\] The power slider controls the
laser’s power during operation (engraving power) with a range setting
from 1 – 100%. The percentage setting represents the power for each
laser pulse fired. TIP Cutting / engraving depth and quality are
determined by a combination of power and speed. Higher power and slower
speeds will produce deeper cuts and engravings, whereas lower power and
higher speeds will produce more shallow cuts and engravings. PPI (Pen
Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: 400\] PPI (pulses-per-inch) represents the
number of times the laser pulses (fires) per linear inch, exclusive for
vector cutting. Higher PPI settings will generate deeper, overlapping
laser pulses, resulting in cleaner cuts. Lower PPI settings (lower than
150) will result in the individual laser pulses being spread apart,
resulting in a perforated effect (similar to the perforation in the
paper between mailing stamps). If you drag the PPI slider to the
furthest right (maximum), the value will change to X. This completely
disables the PPI control and continuously fires the laser non-stop,
without pulsing. Think of setting PPI to X as being equivalent to
turning a water facet on with the water continuously flowing out. This
also disables the power ramp functionality, which automatically controls
the PPI depending on the speed of the laser carriage (such as vector
cutting around the corner of a square). TIP For Vector Engraving jobs,
we recommend a PPI setting \> 150 For Vector Cutting jobs, we recommend
a PPI setting of \> 400 Raster / Vector (Pen Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING:
Selected\] Checking the Raster checkbox will process only the raster
functions for the areas of your design that correspond to that
particular “pen” color. Checking the Vector checkbox will process the
vector functions for the areas of your design that correspond to that
particular “pen” color. As an example: a particular “pen” color may be
assigned to areas in your design containing color fills (raster
engraving) and very thin lines (vector cutting). By checking /
unchecking the Raster and Vector will force the driver to process /
ignore the color fills / thin lines. - 63 - Spirit GE User Manual Vector
Checked Vector Unchecked Raster Checked Processes both Vector and Raster
functions for that particular color Processes only the Raster functions
for that particular color (Vector functions ignored) Raster Unchecked
Processes only the Vector functions for that particular color (Raster
functions ignored) Does not process Vector or Raster functions for that
particular color Air (Pen Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] This
checkbox controls the SmartAIR air-assist function (if you have the
optional air compressor installed). By selecting a pen color and
checking this box will enable the SmartAIR air-assist function for that
particular pen color. As an example, if you are performing a combination
of both surface raster engraving job and deep vector cutting on a
material such as acrylic, you may want to enable the SmartAIR air-assist
for the vector cutting sections to get the cleanest cuts. To do this,
you would simply need to select the pen color that you have assigned to
the sections to be cut and select the Air checkbox for those particular
pen color. Auto Focus (Pen Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] This
checkbox sets the Auto Focus for that particular job. With the Auto
Focus button checked, the Spirit GE will automatically initialize the
auto focus procedure before starting the job. This will ensure the focal
distance is properly set based on the particular material you are
working with and the focal lens you have installed.

### Spirit GE Print Driver \>\> Advance Page

Scaling (Advance Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: 0\] In some cases you may find
a slight output inaccuracy in the actual output compared to what you
have set in the computer. This margin of error or offset is extremely
small (approximately 1/300). What this means that there may be a 1-unit
offset for every 300 unit increments. As an example, if you engrave a
300mm straight line, it may end up measuring only 299mm or 301mm in the
final output. In this case, you will want to set the scaling setting to
+1 / 1000 or -1 / 1000, respectively to compensate. A general rule of
thumb is for every 300 unit increment, you will want to adjust the
slider by +1 if the final output is 1 unit increment shorter or -1 if
the final output is 1 unit increment longer than your graphic design
setting. Position Modes (Advance Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Home\] These
selections allow you to control the positioning of the laser head after
each job completion and before the next subsequent job. 􀂃 Home: Resets
the positioning of the laser head to the ‘home position’ (upper-right)
before and after each job. - 65 - Spirit GE User Manual 􀂃 Without Home:
The laser head will start the next job based on its position from its
graphic application software setting, from the last position of the
previous job. Upon completion of the current job, the laser head will
remain at the last position of the previous job. 􀂃 Relative: This mode
sets the current laser head position to correspond to the origin (top
left) position of the graphic software. Therefore, the laser head will
process the job from its current position relative to its setting in the
graphics software. 􀂃 Center: Sets the current position of the laser head
as the center point for your subsequent job. As an example, if the
subsequent job is to vector cut a circle and you have the Position Mode
set to Center, then the Spirit GE will vector cut a circle around the
initial position of the laser head. TIP It is highly recommended you
enable the red dot laser pointer when setting / adjusting the Position
Modes, as this makes accurate positioning of your laser carriage for
your particular jobs much easier. Image Output Direction (Advance Page)
\[DEFAULT SETTING: Top To Bottom\] These selections allow you to control
the direction in which the system processes an engraved image. 􀂃 Top To
Bottom: Selecting this will force the system to process the current task
by moving the laser carriage from the top to the bottom of the image
(rear end to front end of the work table). 􀂃 Bottom To Top: Selecting
this will force the system to process the current task by moving the
laser carriage from the bottom to the top of the image (front end to
rear end of the work table) (Normally, the LaserPro Spirit GE engraves
from left to right, top to bottom. Selecting Bottom Up will force the
machine to start from the bottom and work its way to the rear of the
working table. TIP In situations where the material you will be working
with may produce a lot of dust byproducts and you are utilizing the
optional air extraction system, it is recommended you select the Bottom
To Top image output direction option. This will minimize the amount of
dust byproducts lodged in the engraved sections as the air extraction
system is vented from the rear of the machine, the same direction as the
image is processed. Border (Advance Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING:
Unselected\] In cases where you are working with a negative image
(negative outline areas of your image are engraved, rather than the
positive areas), you may wish to include a border around your image. To
properly add a border, you will first need to Invert your design from
the Option Page, then check Use Border and specify a value for the
thickness of the border you would like to add to your design.

This mode is useful for engraving rubber stamps, as it allows you to
create the outline around your stamp image. NOTE If you wish to use the
Border and Cluster function simultaneously, then the Border Thickness
value must be less than the Distance value specified in the Cluster
setting. Vector Function (Advance Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Normal\] 􀂃
Normal: This selection will not apply any special advanced vector
function to your job. This is the default Vector Function setting. 􀂃 All
Raster Output: This selection will instruct the print driver to process
your entire image as a raster engraving. Any vector lines within the
image will be treated as raster data and outputted as a raster
engraving, similar to a dot-matrix printer. 􀂃 Vector Sorting: When
performing a vector cutting job in which your image has one vector cut
area enclosing within another vector cut area, select the vector sorting
mode. This mode will automatically instruct the print driver to process
the inside vector image and moving outwards. If you try to process a
vector image that has multiple layers without using this mode, what may
occur is the laser engraver may process the outer vector cutting first,
and any inner vector cutting will not be possible as your centerpiece
material may have dropped to the cutting table. This setting will always
automatically direct the laser to cut from the inner most vector shape
and move outwards. 􀂃 Optimization Sorting: This is a setting that will
minimize your process time. When selected, the print driver will analyze
your image and automatically determine the most efficient processing
path to process your image. Use Cluster (Advance Page) \[DEFAULT
SETTING: Unselected\] This setting allows you to change how the Spirit
GE interprets and processes individual / independent areas of an image
in order to minimize job-processing times. The Cluster function is only
applicable when multiple areas of an image are broken down and isolated
from each other (areas not touching each other, blank space in-between).
Another condition that must be met for the Cluster function is that
these individual areas of your design must have some X-axis overlap,
meaning that they should be somewhat side-by-side with empty space
between them. The distance value can be set by the user and represents
the limit or cutoff point in which side-by-side objects will be
processed in Cluster mode or not. If the distance between side-by-side
objects is greater than the set distance value, then the individual
areas will be processed in Cluster mode. Conversely, if the distance
between side-by-side objects is lesser than the set distance value, then
the individual areas will be processed normally (not via Cluster mode).
An example of an image that would benefit from the Cluster function
would be: 2 squares to be engraved, side-by-side on the X-axis with a 20
cm gap in between them. In this scenario, you would want to enable the
Cluster setting and set the distance to a value less than 20. By doing
so, the laser will completely process one square and “leap-frog” to the
second square, rather than processing both squares simultaneously. The
result: you shorten the processing time by minimizing the unnecessary
travel distance the laser head needs to make across the X-axis in
between squares, if they were to be processed simultaneously.

NOTE If you wish to use the Border and Cluster function simultaneously,
then the Border Thickness value must be less than the Distance value
specified in the Cluster setting. Enhanced Vector Mode (Advance Page)
\[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] This setting allows you to improve the
cutting quality at the expense of speed. Your engraving speed will be
dropped 50%, to maximize the cutting power. We recommend you enable this
function when cutting thicker materials.

### Spirit GE Print Driver \>\> Paper Page

Paper Size (Paper Page) The paper size represents your total work area.
Ensure that the paper size is never set greater than the Spirit GE’s
worktable area of 25” x 18” (640mm x 460mm) or 29” x 20” (740mm x 460mm)
with the Extend option checked. The X value represents the length and
the Y value represents the width. NOTE When using the optional rotary
attachment system and with the Rotary Fixture option checked, the X
value represents the length of your working piece. The Y value will be
changed to Diameter, which represents the diameter of your working piece
(at the position you wish to engrave). Unit (Paper Page) \[DEFAULT
SETTING: Metric (mm)\] Here you can set your preferred measurement
standard in which you would like use with the Spirit GE print driver.
You can choose between metric or imperial standards. Image Tuning (Paper
Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: 0\]

In the event that you are processing extremely fine and detailed designs
requiring near-microscopic edge-to-edge precision, you will need to
adjust the image tuning setting. To adjust this setting, we recommend
you engrave a small black square design as a sample and apply a
magnifying glass to the engraved results. When you look at your engraved
test square under a magnifying glass, you may notice the edges of your
square may be slightly offset, with every consecutive engraved even or
odd line protruding past the square’s ideal edge. This occurrence may
occur on the left or right side of the square and can be compensated for
by the image tuning setting. In the diagram below, the arrows refer to
the direction the laser head is moving to generate that engraved line.
If the first and every other line protrude to the left of the square’s
ideal edge, you will want to set the image tuning to a negative value.
If the first and every other consecutive line protrude to the right of
the square’s ideal edge, you will want to set the image tuning to a
positive value. The further the protruding lines are from the square’s
ideal edge, the larger you will need to set the Image Tuning value to
compensate. The following is an example of how having the proper image
tuning is important when engraving fine, small, intricate text. The
following two pictures show engraved text magnified with no image tuning
(left picture) and image tuning enabled (right picture). Extend (Paper
Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\] If you are processing a very large
area requiring the maximum worktable area, you will want to enable this
mode. Enabling this mode will extend the Spirit GE’s maximum work area
to 38” x 18” (960mm x 460mm), from the default 32” x 18” (812 mm x
460mm). This function is enabled at the expense of Square’s Left Edge
Square’s Right Edge - 70 - Spirit GE User Manual some quality, usually
on the left and right edges of your full-size engraving. Usually the
quality loss is minimal and may not be apparent, depending on your
design. NOTE With the Extend function enabled, the following functions
are disabled: 3D Mode (Option Page), Stamp Mode (Option Page), SmartACT
(Option Page), Disable Skip White (Advance), Auto Focus (Pen Page), and
Rotary Fixture (Paper Page). Dual Head (Paper Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING:
Unselected\] NOTE This option is only to be used with the Dual-Head
optional accessory properly set up. For instructions on how to set up
the Dual Head, please refer to Chapter VII of this manual. This function
allows you to process two identical jobs at the same time through the
employment of a secondary laser carriage. With the dual-head optional
accessory properly set up: 1) Check the Dual-Head function to enable it.
The X (width) value of the paper size will shrink from 64cm to 37cm, to
accommodate for simultaneous jobs. The Y (height) value remains the
same. 2) Simply lay out your work on a maximum page size of 31cm x 46cm.
Prepare your work as if you were making only a single piece, the laser
system and dual-head will automatically take care of the duplication
process. Rotary Fixture (Paper Page) \[DEFAULT SETTING: Unselected\]
NOTE This option is only to be used with the Rotary Attachment optional
accessory properly set up. For instructions on how to set up the Rotary
Attachment, please refer to Chapter VII of this manual. You will need to
select the option when processing a job with the optional rotary
attachment system to engrave on rounded or cylindrical objects. When you
have your material and rotary attachment properly set up: 1) Check the
Rotary Fixture function and notice the change in the Paper Size fields.
Under Paper Size, the X value represents the length of your work piece.
Enter the length of your work piece in this field. 2) Under Paper Size,
the Diameter value represents the diameter of your working piece (at the
position you wish to engrave). Enter the diameter of your work piece in
this field. Again, remember the proper diameter value would be the
diameter location, at the point of engraving on your work piece. 3)
Under Rotary Parameter, the Offset value represents distance from the
open end of your work piece to the base of the padded rubber wheel. This
value will be displayed on the Spirit’s LCD panel. Enter the proper
offset value in this field. Uninstall Driver (Paper Page) Select this to
uninstall the Spirit GE print driver. You will then need to restart your
computer to complete the process.

### Spirit GE Print Driver \>\> Language Page

This page allows you specify the language displayed by the Spirit GE
Print Driver. Current language options allow for: English, Spanish,
French, And Chinese (Simplified, Traditional), Japanese, and German. -
72 - Spirit GE User Manual 5.2.3.6 Spirit GE Print Driver \>\> Raster
Page NOTE The Raster Page is only available when Black & White Mode
Setting is selected from the Option Page, this page offers a number of
advanced Raster Engraving output options. Contrast (Raster Page)
\[DEFAULT SETTING: 0\] A quick and easy way to immediately adjust the
contrast of an engraved image. Moving the slider to the Dark setting
will increase the contrast levels of the engraved output, whereas moving
the slider to the Light setting will decrease the contrast levels of the
engraved output. TIP There are other ways to adjust an engraved image’s
contrast such as: adjust the power / speed settings or simply adjusting
the contrast of the image in software with the graphic software
application. - 73 - Spirit GE User Manual Halftone (Raster Page)
\[DEFAULT SETTING: Dithering\] This option controls the way a
raster-engraved image is processed. The “digital image to engraved
output” process can be processed via two methods: Dithering or Error
Diffusion. Each offer additional output options yielding different
output effects, style, and quality. 􀂃 Dithering: Interprets and outputs
the raster engraving via the dithering method. This mode will allow you
to select the Pattern Type and Dithering Matrix, and Enhanced Dithering.
o Pattern Type: Dot, Bayer, Corner, 45 Degree \[DEFAULT SETTING: Dot\]
Each pattern type uses a different shape and arrangement of dots to
compose the shading effect of a raster image. The following diagram is
an example of the raster effects when using the different pattern types.
Dot Bayer Corner o Dithering Matrix: Variable depending on the Pattern
Type selected. \[DEFAULT SETTING: 8x8\] This controls the resolution
(dot size) and the number of dots the image is broken down into for the
dithering process. As an example, selecting 2 x 2 will shade with a
5-grade halftone, where as an 8 x 8 Dithering Matrix will dither with a
65-grade halftone. The following diagram is an example of the raster
effects when using the different dithering matrices. 2 x 2 Dithering 8 x
8 Dithering 2 x 2 (Enhance Dithering) 8 x 8 (Enhance Dithering) - 74 -
Spirit GE User Manual o Enhance Dithering \[DEFAULT SETTING:
Unselected\] Selecting this will produce a finer dithering output. 􀂃
Error Diffusion (Raster Page): Interprets and outputs the raster
engraving via the error diffusion method. This mode will allow you to
select from three diffusion types: Floyd, Stucki, and Jarvis. o
Diffusion Type: Floyd, Stucki, Jarvis \[DEFAULT SETTING: Floyd\] Each
diffusion type presents the shade of image as different spread halftones
instead of dots to compose a raster image. The following diagram is an
example of the raster effects when using the different diffusion types.
Floyd Stucki Jarvis TIP There is no “correct” or “best” setting when
using the Raster options. The most appropriate settings will be based on
a variety of factors: your design, the material you are engraving on,
the results you wish to achieve, etc. Please take some time to
experiment with the multitude of raster options to get the one you feel
is the best for your piece. This is where much of the fun in engraving
is….experimentation\! - 75 - Spirit GE User Manual 5.2.3.7 Spirit GE
Print Driver \>\> Stamp Page Producing stamps require different
operational steps than your standard engraving or cutting jobs. The
Stamp page offers dynamic options allowing you to customize your stamp
production process. NOTE The Stamp page will only appear and be
accessible when you have selected the Stamp Mode from the Option Page.
TIP Functions located on the other pages that are useful when making a
stamp: Set Shoulder, Pitch, Border, Invert, and Mirror. Pitch (Stamp
Page) Your stamp will be a reversed image composed of engraved
depressions and ridges. Think of these ridges as the “contact sections”
of the stamp. If the ridges of these contact sections are too thin, they
may break. The Pitch setting allows you to increase the width of the
ridge base, hence creating more stable “contact sections” and longer
lasting stamp. The pitch value setting allows you to adjust the base
width of Base of ridge (Pitch) Slope of ridge (Shoulder Level) Ridge:
“Contact section” of the stamp the ridge. Broad pitch gives the
maximum amount of support for each ridge. Experiment with different
pitch value settings in order to produce the stamp that is best suited
for your application. Adjustment Bar / Power Level (Stamp Page) Another
important aspect of creating a stamp is setting the slope level of the
shoulder. The shoulder is the section from the “contact section” of the
stamp to its base. This function allows you to adjust the slope for the
shoulder sections of your stamp. By sliding the sliders or directly
input of power levels, you will be able to change the slope of the
shoulder. NOTE The visual representations of the Pitch and Shoulder
Levels in the Spirit GE driver are an exaggerated representation to
allow for easy visual guidance and precise input. Remember we are
working with distances less than 1 mm here.

### Engraving and Cutting Techniques

#### Raster Engraving

A laser engraver can process text, scanned image, digital picture, or
design by “laser firing” grids / dots of individual pixels into a raster
image. Think of this as simply “printing” your job onto any particular
material. An example of a raster engraved piece would be a photo
engraving on tile, as shown in the picture below.

#### Vector Cutting

A laser engraver can process text, design, and images composed of lines
through continuous-firing of the laser to cut out various shapes. When
performing vector cutting operations, imagine the laser head as a pair
of scissors cutting out the lines specified in your design. An example
of a vector cut piece would be a customized dining mat, as shown in the
picture below.

The Spirit GE Print Driver determines which sections should be raster
engraved or vector cut based on the outline width of that particular
area or section of the design. In order to prep a particular section for
vector cutting, you will need to set that object’s fill color to white
and set its outline thickness between 0.001” (0.025mm) to 0.004” (0.1mm)
via the graphics software. Below is an example of how to prep an area
(in this case, we will use a section of text) for vector cutting.
CorelDraw will be used as the selected graphics software. 1) With the
text function, create a string of characters and select those characters
by clicking on the text. 2) Change the text fill color of the selected
characters to white by left clicking on the white color from the
CorelDraw Color Palette (located on the right hand side of the screen).
3) Change the outline color of the selected characters outline by right
clicking on the desired color from the CorelDraw Color Palette. 4)
Change the selected characters outline thickness to the thinnest width
by right clicking on the selected text 􀃆 select <Properties> 􀃆 Click on
the <Outline> tab and change the Width to its thinnest dimension. Click
on “OK” to apply the changes. 5) Now your string of characters has been
properly designated as an area to be vector cut. Simply “print” your job
(output the file to the Spirit) and watch as your string of characters
is vector cut.

#### Vector and Raster

In some cases, you will want to process both raster engraving and vector
cutting tasks within a single project. For example, if you wanted to
engrave a design onto a particular material and then cut a particular
shape around that engraving. The picture below is an example of an
engraving on a piece of cork, which has then been cut out with a square
shape: In these situations when there are raster engraving and vector
cutting operations on a single project, the LaserPro Spirit GE driver
will interpret between raster sections and vector sections by the types
of lines and line widths of your design. Areas of your design with line
widths set between 0.001” (0.025mm), 0.004” (0.1mm) will be designate
for vector cutting, and the other areas will be designated for raster
engraving.

#### 3D Tips

When doing 3D sample on LaserPro Spirit GE, acrylic or MDF wood are
ideal materials for the purpose. For acrylic the suggested PWR is 100%,
SPD around 30% (depends on how deep you want to cut). (REVISE THIS
SECTION WITH MORE SUBSTANTIAL DETAILS, INSTEAD OF GENERALITIES) The
perfect image for 3D is like those shown below. When image is ready,
choose 3D Effect as the output mode in the driver. Sometimes, some
material (WHAT SORT OF MATERIALS?) shows better effect if you run the
job with 2nd pass with laser out-of-focus. Especially with acrylic, the
2nd pass will smooth out the surface. For engraving wood, as it burns
easily and leaves blackened surface after the 1st pass, it is necessary
to run the 2nd pass to remove the burned surface. To do that, simply
fill the image with black color as the mask (see below) and Run the
black mask image with PWR 100% and SPD100%.

## Important commands

Structure:
\*<http://www.laserprona.com/spirit-ge-2-2/>

## External links

  - [1](http://www.laserprona.com/spirit-ge-2-2/)

## Maintenance

## Downloads

  - [User
    Manual](http://www.laserprona.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Spirit-GE-User-Manual.pdf)

[Category:Machines](Category:Machines "wikilink")
[Category:Machines](Category:Machines "wikilink")