 ![](/assets/images/Makita-router.png
"Makita-router.png")

**Description**:

High-speed spinning tool with a bit at the end of the motor’s shaft that
allows the user to smoothen, to curve, and to polish the edges and
several parts of the wood.

A hand router is one of the most versatile tools in woodworking. More
than just a way to bevel an edge, a router can create all kinds of edge
profiles, be used to square wood edges, and even used as a thickness
planer to level uneven wood.

Although the bearing on some router bits helps guide the blade based on
a reference, sometimes you may want to make a cut with the router where
there is no existing reference. Create a fence to help you

## Safety

  - Use always safety glasses
  - Hold and support the machine firmly on the surface, do not loose
    control
  - The electric cable must extend on the opposite side of the cutting
    direction

## How to use

  - Install the router bit in the collet.
  - Removing the base will allow you easier access to the collet to
    change the router bit, and allow you to change the fixed base for a
    tilting one.
  - Adjusting the gauge for the depth of cut you need. Set your bit
    depth by unbuckling the hasp and setting the depth of the fixed
    base.
  - Edge-routing. Clamp the board down and move the wood router in a
    counterclockwise direction around the board.

**Conventional Vs Climbing Cut**

A milling cutter can cut in two directions, sometimes known as
conventional (or up) and climb (or down). For almost all cutting with a
palm router a conventional cut is recommended, but know that it can
cause tear out when reaching the end of a cut.
![](/assets/images/CONVENTIONAL_CLIMB.png
"CONVENTIONAL_CLIMB.png")

## Bits

![](/assets/images/83b51ee90830f2e2ee75ed7360d17abc.jpg
"83b51ee90830f2e2ee75ed7360d17abc.jpg")

**Straight Bits**

Straight bits are most commonly used extensions for a router as they
allow you to perform straight cuts. These cuts form grooves or dados.
They can also be used for creating a shaft for embedding decorative
parts in your newly created wooden part.

**Rabbeting Bits**

These router extensions are guided by a pilot bearing and are designed
to cut shoulders. They are mostly used to create connecting wooden
pieces and parts that don’t require screws or nails to connect to one
another.

**Flush Trim Bits**

Flush trim bits are great for evening the edges of certain materials.
For example, if you have two parts that are supposed to act as a support
for other parts, it’s advisable that you laminate the edges and make
them even. This way you’ll minimize the friction and ensure that the
part lasts longer.

**Edge Forming Bits**

Edge forming parts are designed to perform small but precise cuts and
shafts. They are usually used for decorative cuts and can easily lose
their effectiveness over time.

## External link

<https://www.makita.co.nz/products/model/RT0700C>

<https://www.instructables.com/lesson/Hand-Router/>

**Manual:**
<https://www.google.it/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0ahUKEwi2suLyvcHbAhWE8RQKHbbWCY4QFggnMAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.makita.de%2Ffileadmin%2F_migrated%2Fcontent_uploads%2FRT0700C-B.pdf&usg=AOvVaw0yV2iaz0pONYlBRxpoyMMG>

[Category:Hand tools](Category:Hand_tools "wikilink")