The International Football Federation aka FIFA will announce the host of
the 2026 World Cup organizer in May 2020. On Tuesday (10/05/2016) local
time, FIFA also announced that initial submissions will commence and run
until May 2017. Official bids from non- interested countries will be
awaited until 2018 before being evaluated until February 2020.

The announcement time is [stremaing live piala
dunia](http://bismilah.xyz/pialadunia) two years before the 2022 World
Cup was held in Qatar. The 22nd World Cup was held for the first time in
the Middle East region known to have high temperatures. As for the World
Cup 2018 or the closest of now will be held in Russia.

The host selection stage for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups begins in
January 2009. Each national football parent of the interested country
has until February 2 to register. At first there were seven countries
that signed up for the 2022 World Cup, but then Mexico resigned.

During the election process, non-UEFA countries gradually resigned from
2018 host elections, ultimately won by Russia. While UEFA countries
resigned from host elections in 2022, [live online piala dunia
streaming](http://bismilah.xyz/tvonline) until the remaining five
countries only, namely the United States, Japan, Australia, South Korea,
and Qatar. On voting on December 22, 2010, Qatar got the most votes.

Indonesia had proposed the official nomination to host the 2022 World
Cup on behalf of the Football Association of Indonesia (PSSI). On 19
March 2010 the nomination was rejected by FIFA due to lack of support
from the government. The government feels that the nomination will not
be supported by the people of Indonesia (ANT).