The Brazilian striker, Neymar, is claimed to join Real Madrid before the
2018 World Cup and re-create a transfer record.

Neymar move to Madrid increasingly widely reported Spanish media. Even
one of the Spanish football observers, Eduardo Inda, claims Neymar move
to Santiago Bernabeu will happen soon.

See also: Marquez Sindir Rossi After the Spanish MotoGP Accident
Incident Inda claims Madrid will announce Neymar's move before the 2018
World Cup takes place. Parties Los Blancos reportedly ready to spend a
transfer of up to € 270 million or equivalent to Rp4, 5 trillion to
bring Neymar from Paris Saint-Germain.

"I'm expecting a surprise [live stremaing piala
dunia](http://bismilah.xyz/pialadunia) Neymar will play at Real Madrid
next season and the Brazilian could be a Real Madrid player before the
World Cup," Inda was quoted as saying by the Daily Express.

Transfer value € 270 million which Inda claimed will make Neymar beat
his own transfer record. Last year Neymar created a transfer record when
PSG bought from Barcelona with a transfer of € 222 million.

Neymar Claimed Join Real Madrid Before World Cup 2018 Confidence Neymar
will join Madrid also disclosed Paul Breitner. The former Madrid player
of the 1974-1977 era said Neymar will be the flagship player of Zinedine
Zidane's next season.

"Neymar will be an important player of Real Madrid next season," said
Breitner was quoted from Marca.

Neymar still has a contract with PSG [live tv online piala
dunia](http://bismilah.xyz/tvonline) until 2022. But, the former Santos
player was reportedly not at home in Paris. Neymar had a fight with his
teammate, Edinson Cavani, and got scorn from PSG supporters.

Neymar has now rejoined the PSG squad after missing since February 2018
with a metatarsal bone injury on his right foot against Olympique
Marseille. Neymar then underwent surgery in Belo Horizonte, Brazil.