The Children's Street World Cup The third theme themed 'The Future
Depends On You' will begin in Moscow in the middle of this week.

More than 200 street children will represent their country to play in
the competition, which is held to draw attention to the rights of
millions of children living on the streets of the world and to change
their negative views about them.

The tournament involving 12 men's teams and 12 women's teams (Indonesia
represented by a men's team) is hosted by Save the Children and Russian
telecommunications company Megafon and will be enlivened by an art
festival as well as a congress for equality.

"When people saw us on the streets, they said we were street children,
but when they saw us playing football, they said we were not street
children - they said we were people like them," said Andile, who is part
of the African team. South at the World Cup of Street Children 2010.

Goal will broadcast live competition via Facebook account, starting with
the opening ceremony and a friendly match between the Russian and
Brazilian women's teams. The tournament footage will be available
throughout the competition, with all matches being held at Russian
league champions Lokomotiv Moscow, Sapsan Arena.

Many big names support this competition, including England coach Gareth
Southgate.

"World Cup of Street Children: The Future Depends On You is a fantastic
event," he said.

"It's about using football [stremaing piala dunia
online](http://bismilah.xyz/pialadunia) to make a positive impact and
not talking to vulnerable youngsters but giving them the stage to talk.I
have the English team, and all the young people who participated, got
the best in football but more importantly changed the world . "

Former Arsenal midfielder Gilberto Silva works with Street Child United,
a charity that runs the competition, and feels blessed to have the
opportunity to work with high-spirited individuals.

"I am honored to be an ambassador for Street Child United," said the
British Premier League championship winner.

"It's a special thing for me to meet ex-inspirational street children,
they're great leaders and I'm happy to be able to support them on the
way to the Street Children World Cup: The Future Depends On You."

Each team is represented by an [live streaming piala
dunia](http://bismilah.xyz/tvonline) organization that protects street
children in each participating country. In order to fit in the squad,
the children have been in the organization for one year and are
following a development program.

This competition will be the opening of the 2018 World Cup in the
summer, and previously held in Durban, South Africa in 2010, and in Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil, 2016 ago.